-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 25 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg25.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.225491
-----------------------------------------------------


SEC. 78. Imposition of Tax. There is hereby levied an annual tax on idle lands at the rate of five percent (5%) of the assessed value of the property which shall be in addition to the basic real property tax.

SEC. 79. Exemptions. The idle land tax shall not apply to idle lands wherein the landowner is physically or legally prevented from improving, or utilizing the same by reason of force majeure, civil disturbance, natural calamity or any justifiable cause or circumstance. Any person having legal interest on the land desiring to avail of the exemption under this Section shall file the corresponding application with the City Treasurer. The application shall state the ground(s) under which the exemption is being claimed.

SEC. 80. Collection and Accrual of Proceeds. The annual tax on idle lands shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as that of the basic real property tax. The proceeds shall accrue to the City of Manila.

SEC. 81. Listing of Idle Land by the Assessor. The City Assessor shall make and keep an updated record of all idle lands located within the City. For purposes of collection, the City Assessor shall furnish a copy thereof to the City Treasurer who shall notify the owner of the property or person having legal interest therein of the imposition of the additional tax.

SEC. 82. Penalty for Tax Delinquency. Failure to pay the tax on idle lands upon the expiration of the periods provided in this Ordinance shall subject the taxpayer to the payment of interest at the rate of two percent (2%) per month on the unpaid amount or a fraction thereof, until the delinquent tax shall have been fully paid: Provided, however, that in no case shall the total interest on the unpaid tax or portion thereof exceeds thirty-six (36) months.

ARTICLE C
SPECIAL LEVY ON LANDS

SEC. 83. Special Levy, Its Meaning. Special levy is a form of taxation based on the benefit principle. The land upon which it is imposed is supposed to have derived some special benefits in terms of higher values from the improvement introduced by the government.

SEC. 84. Imposition of Levy. A special levy is hereby imposed on the lands specially benefited by public work projects or improvements funded by the City at the rate not to exceed sixty percent (60%) of the actual cost of such projects and improvements, including the cost of acquiring land and such other real property in connection therewith.

SEC. 85. Exemptions. The special levy shall not apply to lands exempt from the basic real property tax. It shall not also apply to the remainder of the land portions of which have been donated to the city for the construction of projects or improvements subject to special levy.

SEC. 86. Time of Payment. The special levy shall accrue on the first day of the quarter next following the effectivity of the ordinance imposing such levy.

SEC. 87. Collection and Accrual of Proceeds. Collection of special levy on land shall be the responsibility of the City Treasurer. The proceeds shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------