-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 19 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg19.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.185033
-----------------------------------------------------


B) Fifty percent (50%) of the tax paid under protest shall be held in trust by the City Treasurer,

C) In the event that the protest is finally decided in favor of the taxpayer, the amount or portion of the tax protested shall be refunded to the protestant, or applied as tax credit against his existing or future tax liability; and

D) In the event that the protest is denied or upon the lapse of the sixty-day (60) period prescribed in subparagraph A, the taxpayer may, within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the written notice of assessment, appeal to the City Board of Assessment Appeals by filing a petition under oath in the standard form prescribed therefor, together with copies of the tax declaration and such affidavits or documents in support of the appeal.

SEC. 48. Repayment of Excessive Collections.

When an assessment of basic real property tax, or any other tax levied under this Ordinance, is found to be illegal or erroneous and the tax is accordingly reduced or adjusted, the taxpayer may file a written claim for refund or credit for taxes and interests with the City Treasurer within two (2) years from the date the taxpayer is entitled to such reduction or adjustment.

The City Treasurer shall decide the claim for tax refund or credit within sixty (60) days from receipt thereof.

In case the claim for tax refund or credit is denied, the taxpayer may, within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the written Notice of the Denial of the Claim for Tax Refund or Credit, appeal to the City Board of Assessment Appeals by filing a petition under oath in the standard form prescribed therefor, together with copies of the tax declaration and such affidavits or documents in support of the appeal.

SEC. 49. Notice of Delinquency in the Payment of the Real Property Tax

A) When the real property tax or any other tax imposed under this Article becomes delinquent, the City Treasurer shall immediately cause a notice of the delinquency to be posted at the main entrance of the City Hall and in a publicly accessible and conspicuous place in each barangay. The notice of delinquency shall also be published once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the City.

B) Such notice shall specify the date upon which the tax became delinquent and shall state that personal property may be distrained to effect payment. It shall likewise state that at any time before the distraint of personal property, payment of tax with surcharges, interests and penalties may be made in accordance with this Ordinance, and unless the tax, surcharges and penalties are paid before the expiration of the year for which the tax is due, except when the notice of assessment or special levy is contested administratively or juridically, the delinquent real property will be sold at public auction, and the title to the property will be vested in the purchaser, subject, however, to the right of the delinquent owner of the property or any person having legal interest therein to redeem the property within one (1) year from the date of sale.

SEC. 50. Remedies for the Collection of Real Property Tax. For the collection of the basic real property tax and any other tax levied under this Ordinance, the City may avail of the remedies by administrative action through levy on real property and sale of real property by public auction or by judicial action.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------