-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 112 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg112.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:06.886163
-----------------------------------------------------


F.) Elected Stallholders Disqualified to Lease Rights - Should a stallholder be ejected from his stall for a cause as provided by this ordinance, he and his immediate family members shall be disqualified from again leasing said stall or any other stall in any public market of the city.

G.) Limitations as to Number of Stalls to be Leased - No person shall be allowed to lease more than one (1) stall in any public city market and it shall be a violation for more than one (1) member of a family consisting of a father, mother, son, and daughter to hold stalls in the same market.

SEC. 163. Responsibility for Market Administration. The City Mayor shall exercise direct and immediate supervision and control over the city public market and personnel thereof, including those whose duties concern the maintenance and upkeep of the market and market premises, in accordance with existing ordinances and other pertinent rules and regulations.

SEC. 164. Market Rules and Regulations.

a) Stallholders to Occupy Allotted Stalls or Spaces Only - Stallholders shall not be allowed to occupy stalls or spaces other than those leased to them.

b) Confinement of Merchandise within Leased Space - All merchandise, trays, boxes, etc. must be confined within the area of the stalls. Nothing should be placed beyond the leased space that would cause the narrowing of the walkway or create an obstruction which may cause accidents.

c) Disorganized Stalls - No unnecessary or inappropriate items shall be placed on the top of the counter or elsewhere in the stall which renders a disorderly appearance to the stall or area.

d) Construction/Repair of Stalls - No stallholder/person in the city public markets shall construct, repair, renovate, or undertake any kind of construction of stalls without first securing a permit from the Market Administrator and approved by the City Engineer. Stalls constructed/repaired or renovated in violation of this rule may summarily be removed or destroyed by the Administrator or his agents and/or employees.

e) Permanent Fixtures - Partitions, water connections, and electrical wirings shall be maintained exclusively by the Market Administrator Office (MAO). Therefore, stallholders are strictly prohibited from making any change in any way to the said permanent fixtures. Any desire to impose any change in any of the foregoing in connection to one's business must first be reviewed and approved by MAO. Defects in any of the aforementioned must be reported by the stallholder to MAO for proper action.

f) Conversion of Stall Booth to Dwelling Place - No stallholder or any outsider shall convert the stall/booth or any portion of the market into a temporary or permanent dwelling place. No vendors/stallholder or their helper shall be allowed to stay or spend overnight inside the stall/booth or in any part of the market.

g) Cooking in Stalls - Cooking inside the stalls/booth is strictly prohibited. Likewise, keeping of flammable materials which may cause fire is also prohibited.

h) Selling, Serving, and Dispensing of Intoxicating Drink - No person shall drink, serve, or dispense liquor or any intoxicating drink within the premises of the market.

i) Prohibition on Gambling and Betting - Any form of gambling or betting inside the market premises is strictly prohibited and punishable under the Philippine Gambling Laws and other city ordinances.

j) Selling of goods not stipulated in the contract - Stallholders shall not be allowed to sell goods or products other than those stipulated in the contract. This rule is aimed to protect other stallholders' interest in so far as the diversity of products is concerned.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------