-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 118 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg118.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:06.925598
-----------------------------------------------------


SEC. 182. Collection of Local Revenues by Treasurer

All local taxes, fees, and charges shall be collected by the City Treasurer, or his duly authorized deputies. The City Treasurer may designate his deputy to collect local taxes, fees or charges. In case a bond is required for the purpose, the city government shall pay the premiums thereon in addition to the premiums of bond that may be required under this Ordinance.

In order to ensure and maximize the collection of proper taxes, fees and other charges, the City Treasurer may use or adopt a Presumptive Income Assessment in cases where the taxpayer neglects or refuses to declare the amount of gross sales or receipts subject to tax or such amount so declared appears inadequate, unrealistic or doubtful and the taxpayer fails to submit an Audited Financial Statement or other records. The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to issue the necessary Implementing Rules and Regulations in the use of the Presumptive Income Assessment.

SEC. 183. Examination of Books of Accounts and Pertinent Records of Businessmen by Local Treasurer

The City Treasurer may, by himself or through any of his deputies duly authorized in writing, examine the books, accounts, and other pertinent records of any person, partnership, corporation, or association subject to local taxes, fees and charges in order to ascertain, assess, and collect the correct amount of the tax, fee or charge. Such examination shall be made during regular business hours, only once for every tax period, and shall be certified to by the examining official.

Such certificate shall be made of record in the books of accounts of the taxpayer examined.

In case the examination herein authorized is made by a duly authorized deputy of the local treasurer, the written authority of the deputy concerned shall specifically state the name, address, and business of the taxpayer whose books, accounts, and pertinent records are to be examined, the date and place of such examination, and the procedure to be followed in conducting the same.

For this purpose, the records of the revenue district office of the Bureau of Internal Revenue shall be made available to the city treasurer, his deputy or duly authorized representative, pursuant to Sec. 171, Chapter 3, Article Six, Book II of R.A. No. 7160.

SEC. 24. Exemption from National and Local Taxes

Except for real property taxes on land owned by developers, no taxes, local and national, shall be imposed on business establishments operating within the ECOZONE. In lieu thereof, five percent (5%) of the gross income earned by all business enterprises within the ECOZONE shall be paid and remitted as follows:

(a) [blank]

(b) Two percent (2%) which shall be directly remitted by the business establishments to the treasurer's office of the city where the enterprise is located.

SEC. 25. Applicable National and Local Taxes

All persons and service establishments in the ECOZONE shall be subject to national and local taxes under the National Internal Revenue Code and the Local Government Code.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------