-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 113 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg113.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:06.892162
-----------------------------------------------------


k) Peddling, Hawking and Selling - No one shall be allowed to peddle, hawk, offer or display for sale any article in the passageways or aisles used by customers and within 200 meter radius of the market to avoid unjust competition. The peddling or sale outside the public market site or premises of foodstuff, which easily deteriorate, like fish, meat, chicken is hereby prohibited.

1) Losses of Stallholders - The City shall not be responsible for any loss or damage which stallholders may incur in the city markets by reasons of fire, theft or force majeure. Any merchandise, goods, wares or commodities left in the city markets during closure time shall be at the risk of the stallholders.

m) Abandoned Stall/Articles - Any stall/booth in any city markets which had been closed for thirty (30) consecutive days shall be considered abandoned and the lease to such stall/booth shall be automatically revoked by the Market Committee.

n) Cleaning of Stalls - Every stall whether in the dry or wet section including signboards must be properly cleaned every end of the day in order to avoid accumulation of dirt and foul odor. The cleaning of market stalls, including the floor spaces thereof and all appurtenances thereto, shall be done by the stallholders and their helpers.

o) Proper Garbage Disposal - Every stallholder must have garbage bins lined with garbage or plastic bag for easy pick up by the market housekeepers. Segregation must also be observed, separating biodegradable from non-biodegradable garbage and assigning trash bins for each.

p) Drainage/Canals - There shall be no throwing of any form of garbage or trash in the drainage or canals. This must always be observed to prevent accumulation of dirt which causes clogging/flooding.

q) Bringing of Animals - Bringing over or keeping of animals (whether domesticated or not) in the stalls or letting them loose in any part of the market is strictly prohibited.

r) Public Toilets and Washing Facilities - The market is provided with public toilets and adequate washing facilities. In order to maintain cleanliness and sanitation, taking a bath and doing laundry in these facilities is strictly prohibited.

s) Allotted Parking Spaces for Customers - Parking spaces allotted for customers should not be used by stallholders for parking of their vehicles and for pick-up or delivery of their merchandise. Delivery bay designed for such purpose will be accordingly provided.

CHAPTER VI- COMMUNITY TAX

SEC. 165. Individuals Liable to Community Tax. Every inhabitant of Manila, eighteen (18) years of age or over who has been regularly employed on a wage or salary basis for at least thirty (30) consecutive working days during any calendar year, or who is engaged in business or occupation, or who owns real property with an aggregate assessed value of One Thousand pesos (P1,000.00) or more or who is required by law to file an income tax return shall pay an annual community tax of Five pesos (P5.00) and an annual additional tax of One peso (P1.00) for every One Thousand pesos (P1,000.00) of income regardless of whether from business, exercise of profession or from property which in no case shall exceed Five Thousand pesos (P5,000.00).

In case of husband and wife, the additional tax herein imposed shall be based upon the total property owned by them and the total gross receipts or earnings derived by them.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------