-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 111 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg111.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:06.867096
-----------------------------------------------------


SEC. 162. Lease of Public Market Stalls. Applicants who are Filipino citizens shall have preference in the lease of public market stalls. If on the last day set for filing applications, there is no application from a Filipino citizen, the posting of the notice of vacancy prescribed above shall be repeated for another ten-day period. If after the expiration of that period there is still no Filipino applicant, the stall affected may be leased to any alien applicant who filed his application first. If there are several alien applicants, the adjudication of the stall shall be made through drawing of lots to be conducted by the Market Committee.

In case there is only one Filipino applicant, the stall applied for shall be adjudicated to him. If there are several Filipino applicants for the same stall, adjudication of the stall shall be made through drawing of lots to be conducted by the market committee on the date and hour specified in the notice. The result of the drawing of lots shall be reported immediately by the committee to the City Treasurer concerned for appropriate action.

The successful applicant shall furnish the City Mayor two (2) copies of his/her picture immediately after the award of the lease. It shall be the duty of the Mayor to affix one (1) copy of the picture to the application and the other copy to the record card.

A.) Vacancy of Stall Before Expiration of the Lease. If for any reason, a stallholder or lessee discontinues or is required to discontinue his business before his lease contract expires, such stall shall be considered vacant and its occupancy thereafter shall be disposed of in the manner herein prescribed.

B.) Partnership with Stallholder. A market stallholder who enters into business partnership with any party after he acquires the right to lease such stall has no authority to transfer to his partner or partners the right to occupy the stall. In case of death of any legal disability of such stallholder to continue in his business, the surviving partners may be authorized to continue occupying the stall for a period not exceeding sixty (60) days within which to wind up the business of the partnership. If the surviving partner is qualified to occupy a stall under the provisions hereof, and the spouse, parent, son, daughter or relative within the third degree by consanguinity or affinity of the deceased is not applying for the stall, he shall be given the preference to continue occupying the stall concerned, if he or she applies for it.

C.) Lessee to Personally Administer his Stall. Any person who has been awarded the right to lease a market stall in accordance with the provisions hereof, shall occupy, administer and be present personally at his stall or stalls. He may employ helpers who must be citizens of the Philippines, including but not limited to his spouse, parents and children who are actually living with him and who are not disqualified under the provisions hereof. The persons to be employed as helpers shall under no circumstances, be persons with whom the stallholder has any commercial relation or transaction.

D.) Dummies: Sub-lease of Stalls.- No awardee of the lease of Market Stall shall sub-lease the same nor shall any privileged acquired be sold. A person other than the stallholder, his registered partner or helper found in the latter's stall is prima facie evidence of sub-leasing and shall subject the stallholder to outright revocation of the lease by the Market Committee.

E.) Death of Lessee: Succession. If an adjudicated regular stallholder dies, or becomes physically incapacitated permanently for work, the surviving spouse, if living together, may succeed said adjudicated stallholder to the occupancy of the stall thereof, PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the stallholder leaves no spouse, or the spouse left is physically incapacitated, the eldest legitimate son or daughter, as the case may be, upon whom devolves the support of the family of the deceased or incapacitated stallholder shall be the one next in line to succeed said stallholder; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in case of succession, such spouse, son, daughter is a citizen of the Philippines or not otherwise disqualified to apply for such stall.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------