-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 13 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg13.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.116386
-----------------------------------------------------


B) In the case of real property discovered whose owner or owners are unknown, the City Assessor shall likewise declare the same in the name of the unknown owner until such time that a person, natural or juridical, comes forth and files the sworn declaration of property values required under this Ordinance, as the case may be.

C) No oath shall be required of a declaration thus made by the City Assessor.

SEC. 22.

Listing of Real Property in the Assessment Roll.

A) The City Assessor shall prepare and maintain an assessment roll wherein all real property shall be listed whether taxable or exempt, located within the territorial jurisdiction of the City. Real Property shall be listed, valued, and assessed in the name of the owner or administrator, or anyone having legal interest in the property.

B) The undivided real property of a deceased person may be listed, valued, and assessed in the name of the estate or of the heirs and devisees without designating them individually, and undivided real property other than that owned by a deceased may be listed, valued, and assessed in the name of one or more co-owners. Provided, however, that such heir, devisee, or co-owner shall be liable severally and proportionately for all obligations imposed by this article and the payment of the real property tax with respect to the undivided property.

C) The real property of a corporation, partnership, or association shall be listed, valued, and assessed in the same manner as that of an individual.

D) Real property owned by the Republic of the Philippines, its instrumentalities and political subdivisions, the beneficial use of which has been granted, for consideration or otherwise, to a taxable person, shall be listed, valued, and assessed in the name of the possessor, grantee, or of the public entity if such property has been acquired or held for resale or lease.

SEC. 23.

Proof of Exemption of Real Property from Taxation.

Every person, by or for whom real property is declared, who shall claim tax exemption for such property under this Article, shall file with the City Assessor within thirty (30) days from the date of the declaration of real property sufficient documentary evidence in support of such claim including Corporate Charters, Title of Ownership, Articles of Incorporation, By-laws, contracts, affidavits, certifications, and mortgage deeds, and similar documents.

If the required evidence is not submitted within the period herein prescribed, the property shall be listed as taxable in the assessment roll. However, if the property shall be proven to be tax exempt, the same shall be dropped from the assessment roll.

SEC. 24.

Real Property Identification System.

All declarations of real property, made under the provisions of this Article, shall be kept and filed under a uniform classification system to be established by the City Assessor pursuant to the guidelines issued by the Department of Finance (DOF) for the purpose.

SEC. 25.

Notification of Transfer of Real Property Ownership.

A) Any person who shall transfer real property ownership to another shall notify the City Assessor within sixty (60) days from the date of such transfer. The notification shall include the mode of transfer, the description of the property alienated, the name and address of the transferee.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------