-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 59 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg59.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.494807
-----------------------------------------------------


Restoration of the Excavated Portion in Public Places - All restoration works due to permitted excavations in public places, such as roads and passageways, shall be undertaken by the applicant immediately unless such excavation is by the City Administration, in which case the City Engineer shall immediately undertake the restoration.

Z. Excavation Affecting Adjoining Properties

a. For temporary support of adjoining property, the person causing any excavation to be made shall provide sheet piling and bracing as may be necessary to prevent materials or structure of adjoining property from caving in before permanent support shall have been provided for the side of the excavation.

b. For permanent support of adjoining property, the person causing such excavation to be made shall construct an appropriate retaining wall which shall be carried to a height sufficient to retain the soil of the adjoining areas.

c. For the purpose of providing temporary support to adjoining premises, the person causing an excavation to be made shall get the consent of the owner of the adjoining premises and construct the temporary support. However, if such consent and entrance are not granted, the owner of the adjoining premises shall be responsible for providing the necessary support at their own expense and for that purpose, they shall be given authority to enter the premises where the excavation is to be made.

AA. Excavation Affecting Adjoining Structures

a. Whenever an excavation is carried to the depth of more than 4 feet below the curb, the person causing the excavation to be made shall seek consent to enter the premises of the adjoining structures at all times. If granted the consent of the owner of the adjoining structure to enter, they shall, at their own expense, preserve and protect from damage all existing structures, the safety of which may be affected by that part of the excavation which extends more than four feet below the curb line. They shall support such structure by proper foundation. If the owner's consent to enter is not granted to the person causing the excavation to be made, it shall be the duty of the owner not granting the consent to make and provide the necessary foundations, and when necessary for that purpose, such owner shall be given authority to enter the premises where such excavation is to be made.

b. Whenever an excavation is carried to the depth of less than four feet below the curb, the person causing the excavation shall preserve the safety of the structures which may be affected by the excavation and protect them from injury and support them by proper foundation except as otherwise provided in the excavation more than four feet deep, and when necessary for that, the owner of the structure shall be given authority to enter the premises where such excavation is to be made.

BB. Appropriate Markers And Guards

a. The excavation in public places shall be provided with appropriate markers and safety devices for the traveling vehicles and pedestrians.

b. In case of death, injury, and/or damage caused by the non-completion of such work and for failure of the one undertaking the work to adopt the precautionary measures for the protection of the general public or violation of any of the terms and conditions of the permit, the permittee/excavator shall assume all liabilities for such death, injury, or damage arising therefrom. For this purpose, the excavator permittee shall be required to procure insurance to answer for third-party liability.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------