-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 14 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg14.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.122388
-----------------------------------------------------


B) In addition to the notice of transfer, the previous property owner shall likewise surrender to the City Assessor the tax declaration covering the subject property in order that the same may be cancelled from the assessment records. If, however, said previous owner still owns property other than the property alienated, he shall, within the prescribed sixty-day (60) period, file with the City Assessor, an amended sworn declaration of the true value of the property or properties he retains in accordance with the provisions of Secs. 19 and 20 of this Ordinance.

SEC. 26. Duty of Register of Deeds to Apprise City Assessor of Real Property Listed in Registry.

A) To ascertain whether or not any real property entered in the registry of property has escaped discovery and listing for the purpose of taxation, the Register of Deeds shall prepare and submit to the City Assessor, within six (6) months from the date of effectivity of the Local Government Code (January 1, 1992) and every year thereafter, an abstract of his registry, which shall include brief but sufficient descriptions of real properties entered therein, their present owners, and the dates of their most recent transfer or alienation accompanied by copies of corresponding deeds of sale, donation, or partition or other forms of alienation.

B) It shall be the duty of the Register of Deeds to require every person who shall present for registration a document of transfer, alienation or encumbrance of real property, to accompany the same with a certificate to the effect that the real property subject to the transfer, alienation, or encumbrance, as the case may be, has been fully paid of all real property taxes due thereon. Failure to provide such certificate shall be a valid cause for the Register of Deeds to refuse the registration of the document.

C) The Register of Deeds and Notaries Public shall furnish the City Assessor with copies of all contracts, selling, transferring, or otherwise conveying, leasing, or mortgaging real property registered by, or acknowledged before them, within thirty (30) days from the date of registration or acknowledgment.

SEC. 27. Duty of Official Issuing Building Permit or Certificates of Registration of Machinery to Transmit Copy to the City Assessor.

A) Any public official or employee who may now or hereafter be required by law or regulation to issue to any person a permit for the construction, addition, repair, or renovation of a building, or permanent improvement on land, or a certificate of registration for any machinery, including machines, mechanical contrivances, and apparatus attached or affixed on land or to another real property, shall transmit a copy of such permit or certificate within thirty (30) days of its issuance to the City Assessor.

B) Any official referred to in paragraph A hereof shall likewise furnish the City Assessor with copies of the building floor plans and/or certificates of registration or installation of other machineries which may not be permanently or temporarily attached to land or another real property but falling under the definition of the term machinery and the rules and guidelines issued by the Department of Finance (DOF).

SEC. 28. Duty of Geodetic Engineers to Furnish Copy of Plans to the City Assessor.

It shall be the duty of all geodetic engineers, public or private, to furnish free of charge to the City Assessor with a white or blueprint copy of each of all approved original or subdivision plans or maps of surveys executed by them within thirty (30) days from receipt of such plans from the Land Management Bureau, the Land Registration Authority, or the Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board, as the case may be.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------