-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 121 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg121.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.077872
-----------------------------------------------------


A report on any levy shall be submitted by the levying officer to the Sanggunian within ten (10) days after receipt of the warrant.

SEC. 189. Penalty for Failure to Issue and Execute Warrant. Without prejudice to criminal prosecution under the Revised Penal Code and other applicable laws, the City Treasurer who fails to issue or execute the warrant of distraint or levy after the expiration of the time prescribed, or who is found guilty of abusing the exercise thereof by competent authority shall be automatically dismissed from the service after due notice and hearing.

SEC. 190. Advertisement and Sale. Within thirty (30) days after levy, the City Treasurer shall proceed to publicly advertise for sale or auction the property or a usable portion thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the claim and cost of sale; and such advertisement shall cover a period of at least thirty (30) days. It shall be effected by posting a notice at the main entrance of the city hall, and in a public and conspicuous place in the barangay where the real property is located, and by publication once a week for three (3) weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The advertisement shall contain the amount of taxes, fees or charges, and penalties due thereon, and the time and place of sale, the name of the taxpayer against whom the taxes, fees, or charges are levied, and a short description of the property to be sold. At any time before the date fixed for the sale, the taxpayer may stay the proceedings by paying the taxes, fees, charges, penalties and interests. If he fails to do so, the sale shall proceed and shall be held either at the main entrance of the city building, or on the property to be sold, or at any other place as determined by the City Treasurer conducting the sale and specified in the notice of sale.

Within thirty (30) days after the sale, the City Treasurer or his deputy shall make a report of the sale to the Sanggunian, and which shall form part of his records. After consultation with the Sanggunian, the city treasurer shall make and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale, showing the proceedings of the sale, describing the property sold, stating the name of the purchaser and setting out the exact amount of all taxes, fees, charges, and related surcharges, interests, or penalties: Provided, However, That any excess in the proceeds of the sale over the claim and cost of sales shall be turned over to the owner of the property. The city treasurer may advance an amount sufficient to defray the costs of collection by means of the remedies provided for in this Title, including the preservation or transportation in case of personal property, and the advertisement and subsequent sale, in case of personal and real property including improvements thereon.

SEC. 191. Redemption of Property Sold. Within one (1) year from the date of sale, the delinquent taxpayer or his representative shall have the right to redeem the property upon payment to the city treasurer of the total amount of taxes, fees or charges and related surcharges, interests or penalties, from the date of delinquency to the date of sale, plus interest of not more than two (2%) percent per month on the purchase price from the date of purchase to the date of redemption. Such payment shall invalidate the certificate of the sale issued to the purchaser and the owner shall be entitled to a certificate of redemption from the city treasurer or his deputy. The City Treasurer or his deputy, upon surrender by the purchaser of the certificate of sale previously issued to him, shall forthwith return to the latter the entire purchase price paid by him plus the interest of not more than two (2%) percent per month herein provided for, the portion of the cost of sale and, other legitimate expenses incurred by him, and said property thereafter shall be free from the lien of such taxes, fees or charges, related surcharges, interests, and penalties.

The owner shall not, however, be deprived of the possession of said property and shall be entitled to the rentals and other income thereof until the expiration of the time allowed for its redemption.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------