-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 22 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg22.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.208501
-----------------------------------------------------


SEC. 58. Resale of Real Estate Taken for Taxes, Fees or Charges.-The Sangguniang
Panlungsod may, through a separate ordinance and upon notice of not less than twenty (20) days,
sell and dispose of the real property acquired under the preceding section at public auction. The
proceeds of the sale shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.

SEC. 59. Further Distraint of Levy.
If the amount due, including all expenses, is collected
Levy may be repeated if necessary until the full

SEC. 60. Collection of Real Property Tax Through the Courts. The City
Government may enforce the collection of the basic real property tax or any tax levied under this
Article by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction.

SEC. 61. Action Assailing Validity of Tax Sale. No court shall entertain any action
assailing the validity of any sale at public auction of real property or rights therein under this
Article until the taxpayer shall have deposited with the court the amount for which the real
property was sold, together with interest of two percent (2%) per month from the date of sale to
the time of the institution of the action. The amount so deposited shall be paid to the purchaser
at the auction sale if the deed is declared invalid but it shall be returned to the depositor if the
action fails. Neither shall any court declare a sale at public auction invalid by reason of
irregularities or informalities in the proceedings unless the substantive rights of the delinquent
owner of the real property or the person having legal interest therein have been impaired

SEC. 62. Payment of Delinquent Taxes on Property Subject of Controversy. — In any
action involving the ownership or possession of, or succession to, real property, the court may
motu propio or upon representation of the City Treasurer or his deputy, award such, ownership,
possession or succession to any party to the action upon payment to the court of the taxes with
interest due on the property and all other costs that may have accrued, subject to the final outcome
of the action

SEC. 63. Treasurer to Certify Delinquencies Remaining Uncollected. - The City
Treasurer or his deputy shall prepare a certified list of all real property tax delinquencies which
remained uncollected or unpaid for at least one (1) year, and a statement of the reason or reasons
for such non-collection or non-payment, and shall submit the same to the City Mayor and the
Sangguniang Panlungsod on or before the thirty-first of December of the year immediately
succeeding the year in which the delinquencies were incurred, with a request for assistance in
the enforcement of the remedies for collection provided herein

SEC. 64. Periods Within Which to Collect Real Property Taxes. The basic real
property tax and any other tax levied under this Article shall be collected within five (5)
years from the date they become due. No action for the collection of the tax, whether
administrative or judicial, shall be instituted after the expiration of such period. In case of fraud
or intent to evade payment of the tax, such action may be instituted for the collection of the same
within ten (10) years from the discovery of such fraud or intent to evade payment
which
The period of prescription within which to collect shall be suspended from the time during
(1) The City Treasurer is legally prevented from collecting the tax,
(2) The owner of the property or the person having legal interest
therein requests for reinvestigation and executes a waiver in writing
before the expiration of the period within which to collect, and
(3) The owner of the property or the person having legal interest
therein is out of the country or otherwise cannot be located

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------