-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 120 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg120.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.072024
-----------------------------------------------------


3) Publication-The owner shall forthwith cause a notification to be exhibited in not less than three (3) public and conspicuous places in the territory of the City specifying the time and place of sale and the articles distrained. The time of sale shall not be less than twenty (20) days after notice to the owner or possessor on the property hereinabove specified and the publication or posting of the notice. One place for the posting of the notice shall be at the Office of the Chief Executive of the City.

4) Release of distrained property upon payment prior to sale - If at any time prior to the consummation of the sale, all proper charges are paid to the officer conducting the sale, the goods or effects distrained shall be restored to the owner.

5) Procedure of sale At the time and place fixed in the notice, the officer conducting the sale shall sell the goods or effects so distrained at public auction to the highest bidder for cash. Within five (5) days after the sale, the local treasurer shall make a report of the proceedings in writing to the local Chief Executive concerned.

6) Should the property distrained be not disposed of within one hundred and twenty (120) days from the date of distraint, the same shall be considered as sold to the City for the amount of the assessment made thereon by the committee on appraisal and to the extent of the same amount, the tax delinquencies shall be cancelled.

Disposition of proceeds - The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to satisfy the tax, including the surcharges, interest, and other penalties incident to delinquency, and the expenses of the distraint and sale. The balance over and above what is required to pay the entire claim shall be returned to the owner of the property sold.

The expenses chargeable upon the seizure and sale shall embrace only the actual expenses of seizure and preservation of the property pending the sale, and no charge shall be imposed for the services of the local officer or his deputy. Where the proceeds of the sale are insufficient to satisfy the claim, other property may, in like manner, be distrained until the full amount due, including all expenses, is collected.

SEC. 188. Levy on Real Property - After the expiration of the time required to pay the delinquent tax, fee or charge, real property may be levied on, before, simultaneously, or after the distraint of personal property belonging to the delinquent taxpayer. To this end, the City Treasurer shall prepare a duly authenticated certificate showing the name of the taxpayer and the amount of the tax, fee or charge and penalty due from him. Said certificate shall operate with the force of a legal execution. Levy shall be effected by writing upon said certificate the description of the property upon which levy is made. At the same time, written notice of the levy shall be mailed to or served upon the assessor and the Registrar of Deeds of the City who shall annotate the levy on the tax declaration and certificate of title of the property, respectively, and the delinquent taxpayer or, if he be absent from the Philippines, to his agent or the manager of the business in respect to which the liability arose, or if there be none, to the occupant of the property in question.

In case the levy on real property is not issued before or simultaneously with the warrant of distraint on personal property, and the personal property of the taxpayer is not sufficient to satisfy his delinquency, the City Treasurer shall within thirty (30) days after execution of the distraint, proceed with the levy on the taxpayer's real property.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------