-----------------------------------------------------
LGU: City of Manila
Ordinance Number: 8331
Page Number: 16 of 124
Source: - D:\Coding\Releases\Document_Retriever_API\reference2\reference\Ordinance_8331\Ordinance_8331_pg16.txt
Created: 2024-05-08T14:43:07.168346
-----------------------------------------------------


SEC. 34. Valuation of Real Property. - In case where

A) Real property is declared and listed for taxation purposes for the first time,
There is an ongoing general revision classification and assessment, or
A request is made by the person in whose name the property is declared, the
City Assessor or his duly authorized deputy shall, in accordance with the
provisions of this Article, make a classification, appraisal and assessment of the
real property listed and described in the declaration, irrespective of any previous
assessment of taxpayer's valuation thereon: Provided, however, that the
assessment of real property shall not be increased often than once every three
(3) years except in case of new improvements substantially increasing the
value of said property or of any change in its actual use.

SEC. 35. Date of Effectivity of Assessment or Reassessment. All assessments or
reassessments made after the first day of January of any year shall take effect on the first day
of January of the succeeding year. Provided, however, that the reassessment of real property due
to its partial or total destruction, or to a major change in its actual use, or to any great or sudden
inflation or deflation of real property values or to the gross illegality of the assessment when
made or to any other abnormal cause, shall be made within ninety (90) days from the date any
such cause or causes occurred, and shall take effect at the beginning of the quarter next
following the reassessment.

SEC. 36. Assessment of Property Subject to Back Taxes. Real property declared
for the first time shall be assessed for taxes for the period during which it would have been
liable but in no case for more than ten (10) years prior to the date of initial assessment:
Provided, however that, such taxes shall be computed on the basis of the applicable schedule of
values, assessment levels or tax rates in force during the corresponding period
If such taxes are paid on or before the end of the quarter following the date the notice of
assessment was received by the owner or his representative, no interest for delinquency shall be imposed
thereon, otherwise, such taxes shall be subject to an interest at the rate of two percent (2%) per month or
a fraction thereof from the date of the receipt of the assessment until such taxes are fully paid.

SEC. 37. Notification of New or Revised Assessment.-When real property is assessed for
the first time or when an existing assessment is increased, the City Assessor shall, within thirty (30)
days, give written notice of such new or revised assessment to the person in whose name the property is
declared. The notice may be delivered personally or by registered mail or through the assistance of the
Punong Barangay to the last known address of the person to be served.

SEC. 38. Appraisal and Assessment of Machinery.

A) The fair market value of a brand new machinery shall be the acquisition cost. In
all other cases, the fair market value shall be determined by dividing the
remaining economic life of the machinery by its estimated economic life and
multiplied by the replacement or reproduction cost.

B) If the machinery is imported, the acquisition cost includes freight, insurance, bank
and other charges, brokerage, arrastre, and handling, duties and taxes, plus cost of
inland transportation, handling and installation charges at the present site. The
cost in foreign currency of imported machinery shall be converted to peso cost on
the basis of foreign currency exchange rates as fixed by the Central Bank.

-----------------------------------------------------
Disclaimer: The ordinance text was extracted by CREWBRAIN AI Forensics, a tool that uses OCR, NLP, and ML for accurate legal document analysis. While efforts are made to ensure accuracy, refer to the original document for official use. City of Manila and CREWBRAIN are not liable for discrepancies. Visit https://citycouncilofmanila.com.ph for more information.
-----------------------------------------------------